**"Pip, dear old chap, life is made of ever so many partings welded
together, as I may say, and one man's a blacksmith, and one's a
whitesmith, and one's a goldsmith, and one's a coppersmith. Diwisions
among such must come, and must be met as they come."**

This is a quote said by Joe Gargery to Pip in chapter 27. This quote
demonstrates characterization for Joe being selfless and caring. In the
quote Joe explains to Pip that they cannot be in each other's company
just to save Pip's reputation. Joe refers to himself as a blacksmith,
and Pip who is now rich, a goldsmith. As much as Joe would like to spend
time with his nephew after being away for so long, he leaves because he
is a selfless person who wants Pip to have a good life.

**"Out of my thoughts! You are part of my existence, part of myself. You
have been in every line I have ever read, since I first came here, the
rough common boy whose poor heart you wounded even then. You have been
in every prospect I have ever seen since -- on the river, on the sails
of the ships, on the marshes, in the clouds, in the light, in the
darkness, in the wind, in the woods, in the sea, in the streets. You
have been the embodiment of every graceful fancy that my mind has ever
become acquainted with. The stones of which the strongest London
buildings are made, are not more real, or more impossible to displace
with your hands, than your presence and influence have been to me, there
and everywhere, and will be. Estella, to the last hour of my life, you
cannot choose but remain part of my character, part of the little good
in me, part of the evil. But, in this separation I associate you only
with the good, and I will faithfully hold you to that always, for you
must have done me far more good than harm, let me feel now what sharp
distress I may. O God bless you, God forgive you!"**

This is a quote said by Pip to Estella in chapter 44. It shows
characterization for Pip as he pours his heart out and confesses his
love for Estella. Even though he has been let down so many times, he
still longs for Estella and keeps trying to win her heart. This quote
shows Pip's true determination and his attitude of never giving up.

**"Since your change of fortune and prospects, you have changed your
companions," said Estella. "Naturally," said I, "And necessarily," she
added, in a haughty tone; "what was fit company for you once, would be
quite unfit company for you now."**

This is a quote said by Estella Havisham to Pip. I believe that this
quote capture the central theme. The theme being about society class and
social standings versus affection and self improvement, this quote fits
the part of class and social standings. Estelle is telling Pip that now
that he is rich, he should not be in the company of poor people like Joe
or Biddy.
