---
author: srao
image: assets/images/2021-06-25-desks_from_the_perspective_of_a_minor_whiner.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Desks: From the Perspective of a Minor Whiner"
---

***Note from grade-12-Surbhi:** This article was my application piece
for the Beacon in grade 9 and is now my final contribution to the club.
We’re bringing it full circle folks!*

*I’ll pass it on to grade-9-Surbhi. We’ll talk again at the end.*

*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_*

During the summer, family and friends would ask me what grade I was in,
so I’d tell them I was going to start ninth grade. I’d always get the
same reaction, “So you’re starting *high school.* Are you ready?” I
wouldn’t know how to respond because I didn’t know anything about high
school. My perception of high school was based on all the things my
middle school teachers warned me about - the workload, strict teachers,
and tall grade twelves - but getting used to all of those was easy
compared to *the desks.* Don’t get me wrong, I think these desks are
amazing in many ways - their tables slightly tilted to the perfect angle
for frantically finishing your third test of the day, their beautiful
fluoride-green hue, and the footrest under the seats, just the right
size for the books you keep in your bag - but *built-in* chairs?

I know I’m not the only one who struggled with the chairs being attached
to the desks. I vividly remember the first few days of school when the
dismissal bell was followed by the sound of twenty-five chair-desk
hybrids scraping against the floor, and the sight of twenty-five
students shifting backwards in unison. We could no longer simply scoot
our chairs back and stand; instead, we had to snake our way through the
maze created by our desk and the one adjacent. It seemed to me that
after a while, everyone else had moved on and it was only my lone
squeaky struggles echoing through the empty classroom.

Signs of growth are already evident in the class of 2021; today, I hear
no sounds of those trying to wriggle free from their desk. We’ve done
it. I find myself starting to love what I used to hate about the desks;
the chair being attached to the desk may be inconvenient when trying to
leave, but I love the innovative 2-in-1 furniture concept. In some way,
it makes me feel secure and protected. These desks are no longer
obstacles in my mind. I’m starting to feel like a real bear. Now I just
need to figure out where my geography class is.

*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_*

***Note from grade-12-Surbhi:** Hello again! Though we haven’t gotten to
see our beloved cross-bred seats much this year, I hope you could still
relate to this article.*

*To the class of 2021: congratulations! I hope you recognize that
whatever your fears and struggles may have been leaving middle school,
you did it. And when you leave high school, you’ll do it again.*



*Image Source: “MCI Desks” taken by Emily Park*
