---
author: dbrebeanu
image: assets/images/2021-06-24-MCI_The_Little_Things.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "MCI: The Little Things"
---

As this school year comes to a close, and with students missing crucial
in-person time at the school, I wanted to take a moment to journey all
throughout the Martingrove lifestyle. Here is a recounting of all the
little, unique features that fill the school with life and personality,
making it a vibrant and interesting place.

*Chapter 1: The Timeless Opportunities for Thrill Seeking and Spiritual
Enlightenment:*

As we all know, Martingrove’s in-person classes begin at 8:45 in the
morning. In fact, a couple years back, the school even had its own
standard time, independent from geolocation, where all of the clocks in
the school were set 2 minutes ahead of the rest of Ontario. Whether or
not this was intentional, it definitely made getting to school in the
morning an even more adventurous affair…

There are often those people who arrive at school with 5 minutes left to
rush to their locker and then to class. The excitement of living on the
edge when arriving late to school helps wake them up in the morning.

Now, if you do happen to arrive late, you must go through a humbling
ritual of standing still in the hallway, facing the uncanny smile of the
supervising teacher during the playing of *O Canada*. In a way, this
makes for a bit of spiritual enlightenment. The national anthem echoing
throughout the vestibule and the murmuring of fellow students creates an
almost serene atmosphere, prone to inner self-reflection. Many students
were there once, standing in shame, repenting their tardy crimes, asking
Marty the Bear for forgiveness and most importantly, hoping for enough
strength to make it to class before the matinal announcements finish and
they are marked late.

*Chapter 2: The Local Food Hotspots*

One of the focal points of the MCI morning rush is the large amounts of
delicious breakfast snacks. Many will be familiar with the world-famous
MCI *Cheese Bread*©, fruits, Melba toast, cheerio packages, and
straight-up loaves of bread that sit in the office hallway, constantly
eyed and picked up by the students throughout the day. Some may have
heard of the school’s cafeteria where you can buy a hearty meal at
lunch. We also cannot forget about our local Metro or Tim Horton’s. But
did you know that Martingrove used to have its own school snack store…
and even a hot dog stand?

Oh, dearest Bear’s Den, you are still missed! The school’s widely famous
snack store had to close down in 2017. But before it met an untimely
end, it lived a glorious life. Pop, chips, and chocolate galore, Bear’s
Den held everything needed for a Martingrove student to fuel themselves
during the day. Situated in the booth in the southwest corner of the
school’s foyer, the colourful tint of the snack packaging attracted many
Bears hoping to satisfy their sweet tooth. Soon after, the Bears became
bees, as the sugar highs asserted their dominance, and students began to
buzz around the school, making for a vibrant afternoon.

I would be remiss not to mention our beloved Jerry, who animated and lit
up the front of the school every lunch when he arrived to sell his
wonderful hot dogs and beverages. Lines formed in front of him even
longer than those for Bear’s Den, stretching from the street all the way
back to the school’s doors. Unfortunately, at the same time as the
banning of Bear’s Den, Jerry’s presence in front of MCI became a memory.
However, we have been informed by a trusty source that he was seen
outside another high school in Toronto, bringing happiness to new faces.

*Chapter 3: The Secret Math Textbook Office*

MCI has a second story, but do you know just how big it really is? We
all assume it ends with the classrooms. However, if you can get your
hands on a map of the school, you’ll see that on the east side of the
second floor, behind the photocopier room is a seemingly unsuspecting
door. Little did we know that the math textbook storage room was looming
right behind it.

Now, this would not be a very interesting part of Martingrove if it was
just a regular old storage room, however our sources have managed to
find a copy of the school’s floor plan. They have found out that the
Math textbook room happens to be huge. It makes you wonder if there are
really that many textbooks to store in there…

We here at the Beacon have a connection to an investigative journalist
who was able to get a glimpse on the inside. According to them, it was
filled with rows and rows of intimidating textbooks, but they insist
that this is a cover-up. Our connection had with them a radiation
detector which reported traces of Hawking’s radiation deeper in the
room. We here at the Beacon have reasons to believe that secret research
projects are currently taking place in MCI’s math textbook room that
study the nature of gravity in an effort to create a wormhole to a
different universe. Knowing how heavy most of the math textbooks are,
this does not seem far off.

*Chapter 4: The Best Parts of the Music Hallway*

We shall not forget the Strings and Band rooms with the memorabilia on
the walls, pictures of generations and generations of virtuoso students
and competition trophies won year after year by the pupils of Mr.
Stoica, Ms. McAskill and, in the future, pupils of Ms. Chang.

There is something inspiring in the way the instruments line up along
the walls like well-trained soldiers. The old piano tells stories of
students playing Fur Elise during impromptu concerts during breaks
between rehearsals. Mr. Stoica’s bubble gum dispenser sat in the corner
of the strings room, always mysteriously filled in.

Next door is the auditorium, a witness of glorious Winter and Spring
concerts, galas, and ceremonies year after year for welcoming new
students, graduations, and commencements. Walking now on the eery silent
hallways one could imagine hearing the cheerful voices of generations
and generations of teenagers full of hopes and dreams who coloured the
walls and ceilings with their liveliness.

*Chapter 5: The Fitting Meaning of MCI’s Motto*

What would a recounting of all things MCI be without mentioning our
school’s windowless nature? Window jokes have become a centerpiece in
the Martingrove lore. Many origin stories have been created detailing
how the school’s unique architecture came to be. Some say the lack of
windows was meant as a way of conserving heat during the Torontonian
winters. Others claim the school was once used as a bunker during the
war. One of our very own Beacon writers has written an article about one
of MCI’s most interesting origin stories that you can check out.

The truth is that Martingrove is a special school regardless of the
building architecture. There are fabulous teachers and support staff who
are diligently opening windows in students’ minds to create, to
discover, to see the world from different perspectives, and to soar to
the sky. Throughout my time at the school, I have met people with
creative and vibrant personalities, and I have seen active, welcoming
clubs and teams. Altogether, it makes the school stand out because of
the hard work and talent of its amazing students and teachers. This is
what truly gives life to our school motto: Lumen in Vobis Est - “The
Light is Within You!”
