---
author: smahmud
image: assets/images/how-summer-affects-your-mental-health.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "How Summer Affects Your Mental Health"
---
Look out the window: do you see the sun shining brightly onto the green
grass? This is just one of many signs the summer months are within
reach. With summer approaching, you may notice a shift in your overall
mood. We all feel a certain weight has been lifted off our shoulders
when the weather begins to warm up (and it's not just the lack of weight
from thick winter jackets!). There is a direct correlation between
summer weather and a better state of mind.

Firstly, summer means longer days and brighter sunlight, so there’s more
time to enjoy everything these months have to offer. These extended
hours of sunlight give us more vitamin D, a nutrient that helps with the
absorption of calcium and phosphorus. Vitamin D, also known as the
“sunshine vitamin”, raises our energy levels, making us feel happier and
less tired. A large percentage of Canadians ages 12-19 receive below the
recommended amount of vitamin D, classified as almost vitamin D
deficient. Vitamin D deficiency symptoms include fatigue, muscle
weakness, and depression. Being outside during the summer months is a
way to regain the vitamin D we’ve been missing during winter. It helps
not only brighten our backyards, but our own moods.

According to research from the University of Michigan, warm and sunny
weather can improve attitude, memory, and provide openness to creative
thoughts and new information. Their findings suggested that two crucial
variables affect mood: how much time you spend outside and what season
it is. If an individual usually spends a good amount of time outside,
and the season has changed from winter to summer, a noticeable change
can occur. In one study, participants across the United States were
randomly assigned to be outdoors during warm, sunny days. The results
showed that these individuals had an improved mood and memory, compared
to those who were outside during poor weather and those who stayed
indoors. Interestingly, the researchers also found the ideal temperature
for people to be 72 degrees Fahrenheit, or about 22 degrees Celsius. It
was concluded that for weather to improve mood, one needs to spend at
least 30 minutes outside in warm weather per day. Individuals who stay
indoors when the weather is nice outside experience a decrease in
overall mood, and a narrowed cognitive style.

Thirdly, the pleasant weather during summer provides incentive to be
more physically active. Whether this involves going for walks, bike
rides, playing sports, or working out, an increase in temperature makes
it both easier and more enjoyable to get outside and move. Especially in
milder summer temperatures, people tend to express feelings of joy and
optimism. With the provincial restrictions beginning to loosen as well,
we are able to inch even closer to normal. There is no doubt that
previously negative moods, in large part due to the cold weather and
lengthy lockdowns, will begin to shift this summer due to the warm
weather. So when you look outside to see the green grass and shining
sun, remember to enjoy the mental benefits that come with this lovely
time of year!

Image Source and Credit: Creative Commons

Link:
[*https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/e257cfb7-b145-432f-89e1-befe23cf6d8a*](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/e257cfb7-b145-432f-89e1-befe23cf6d8a)
