---
author: mhutzul
image: assets/images/getting_our_act_together.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Getting Our Act Together: How Canada is (Finally) Winning the Vaccine Race"
---

Over a year after the COVID-19 pandemic began, hope is finally on the
horizon. With more and more Canadians getting vaccinated, and COVID-19
rates dropping dramatically, the return to a normal life in the near
future finally seems possible. According to *Our World in Data*, Canada
recently beat out Israel. This makes us the global leader in first
vaccination rates, with 64 percent to their 63 percent.

When rollouts started in developed countries just a few months ago, it
was hard to imagine we’d reach this point. Canada’s vaccine rollout was
hardly something to be proud of. Back at the start of March, only 4
percent of people in Canada were vaccinated, in comparison to 15.2
percent in the United States, and 55 percent in Israel.

The turnaround started around April. This was when the rate of
vaccinations greatly increased, with around 188,000 people receiving
vaccines each day. Today, our rate is 375,000 people a day - which is
roughly one percent of our population and the highest pace of any
country.

So what changed? The government’s access has been the largest
contributing factor. The Canadian government was largely reliant on
countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. for vaccine supply- but they
were busy supplying their own populations with vaccines made in their
own plants. Canada’s inability to secure vaccines early on in the
process had an adverse impact on our vaccination rates.

Thankfully, there are millions of vaccines coming into Canada now, and
first-dose vaccinations have continued at a steady rate, with pop-up and
mass vaccination clinics aiding the impressive rollout of recent weeks.
American cardiologist Eric Topol credits the “culture” of Canada for the
impressive shift, saying that Canadians are more science-based and less
likely to be “anti-vaxx” than those in his country.

Canada’s strategy - of vaccinating as many people with their first dose
and delaying the second dose - means we have one of the lowest ratios of
first doses to second doses in the world. However, there is some
evidence that giving more Canadians partial protection has contributed
to ensuring less people were impacted by the surging third wave.

As more people in Canada become fully vaccinated, we can aim our sights
on the return to a normal future. All levels of the Canadian government
are under pressure to give clear guidelines on restrictions that can be
lifted for people who are fully vaccinated, in a similar manner that The
United States’ Centre for Disease Control did. While the Public Health
Agency of Canada says it will offer some guidance eventually, for now,
the provinces are largely on their own.

Currently in Ontario, fully vaccinated Canadians are expected to follow
the same social distancing rules as non-vaccinated people, though the
Chief Medical Officer of the province is working with experts on rules
for the fully vaccinated. With the increased vaccination rates for both
first and second doses, it is likely that a return to normal will come
sooner rather than later.

*Image Source: “Person Holding Test Tubes” by Polina Tankilevitch from
pexels.com*
