---
author: rmatharu
image: assets/images/clothing_smart.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "But Is Your Clothing Smart?"
---

In this day and age, the term “smart” has been frequently associated
with the likes of phones, TVs, and even refrigerators. However, there is
now a new addition to this list: the Levi’s x Google Jacquard. Yes, in
other words, it is a smart jacket. Functions such as double tapping to
change the song and swiping left to answer a call are pretty familiar
among our hands. Now, you can perform them on your own clothing!

The Levi’s Commuter Trucker x Jacquard jacket is the very first clothing
item designed with Google’s revolutionary smart clothing technology.
Named Project Jacquard, it aims to ease the processes of communication,
navigation, and entertainment for its wearers. This jacket has the
ability to control music, phone calls, get directions, and even receive
Uber alerts. Don’t worry, it is compatible with Bluetooth and its very
own Jacquard App.

The groundbreaking technology relies on the delicacy of the threads as
this touch sensitive technology is woven into it as a piece of fabric.
This piece of fabric operates by using conductive metal threads that are
intertwined with regular fibres to create a new type of fabric that
maintains the normalized look of denim, masking its intelligent
functions.

Fortunately, Project Jacquard won’t fall victim to its own brand of
consumer culture that exists in this world today as it has no plans to
open any factories. Instead, they are planning to collaborate on other
designs with brands that are already established as retailers. However,
it may enter with a competitor. Other smart clothing exists! Under
Armour has created the HOVR Sonic Sneaker that tracks performance
statistics during a workout and Wearable X has designed the Nadi X Yoga
Pants to differentiate when the wearer loses proper yoga form during a
session.

With smart clothing, the barrier between us and technology is literally
as thin as a thread. Being woven into the very fibres of our clothing,
it brings the question, how connected to technology do we want to be?
Also, is it washing machine safe?

Image credit: *Prosthetic Arm on Blue Background* by ThisIsEngineering from pexels.com
