---
author: rmatharu
image: assets/images/canadas_dark_truth.jpg
layout: post
tags: []
title: "Canada’s Dark Truth: Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women"
---

***Content warning:** This article discusses the Missing and Murdered
Indigenous Women and Girls crisis.*


*B.C. Gathering for families of missing and murdered Indigenous women
and girls (BC Gov Photos)*

Each day, every Indigenous woman wakes up to a nightmare. Otherwise,
known as the dark reality of Canada. A reality where Indigenous women
are **12 times more likely** to go missing or be killed. A reality where
**300 Indigenous women** go missing in a year- of the known cases at
least. However, this reality is masked with racism, ignorance, and
largely, lack of awareness.

**Colonialism’s Lasting Effects**

The root of the ongoing racialization and sexualization of Indigenous
women is no doubt connected to colonialism. It parallels the development
of Canada itself, with the topic of settler colonialism being common
amongst both. Colonists normalized violence against Indigenous women and
families with the support of policies they created such as forced
sterilization and losing their status if they married a non-Status
Indigenous man. These policies served to limit Indigenous women’s access
to community resources and safety networks.

Furthermore, Guthrie Valaskakis, a leading authority on Aboriginal Media
and Communication, states that early colonial writing depicted
Indigenous women as “Indian princesses” that were fetching, proud, and
virtuous. The resistance to such views further catalyzed negative
perspectives on Indigenous women. They became known as “squaws” that
were dirty, lewd, uncivilized, and sexually deviant. This “heirloom” of
intergenerational trauma is passed down through Indigenous families,
often in the form of post-traumatic stress.

**The Burden of Today**

The aforementioned characterizations of Indigenous women certainly exist
to this day. Thus, the grotesque violence that is covered for merely one
Grade 6 class still continues today.

The fear and intergenerational trauma that Indigenous women and girls
are burdened with have forced them to use coping strategies that
increase their vulnerability to violence. These include hitchhiking,
addictions, homelessness, and more. Perhaps one has seen these terms
veiled as causes for their disappearances, when the real culprit,
colonization, is stored away.

**Is the Government Helping?**

The answer to this is simply revealed in the negative effects of the
Indian Act of 1876. Though published over a century ago, it is still in
existence today. It is known that this sole piece of legislation
restricted Indigenous people of their basic human rights. Relating to
the matter of missing and murdered Indigenous women and girls, the
Indian Act largely supports - and arguably has created - the
discrimination and racism prevalent against Indigenous peoples today.

Primarily, the Indian Act is not inclusive when it comes to matrimonial
real property (e.g. family home) on reserve land in the case of a
marriage ending. Nothing in the Act affects title to reserve lands. As
well, the rules on matrimonial property do not apply to First Nations
that have signed the Framework Agreement on First Nations Land
Management or those who have self-government arrangements. This lack of
legal clarity and protection makes women who have been experiencing
violence or recently widowed prone to losing their homes on the reserve.

In short, even one’s home is not a sustainable option when escaping from
violent and unsafe situations.

Yes, one might argue that the government continues to promise to bring
justice to this issue. However, like any other contemporary issue, it is
part of a political agenda.

**Three-Year Effort Down the Drain**

An important and highly regarded document called the National Inquiry on
Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls was published June 3,
2019. It concluded that years of systemic racism and human rights
violations were a significant factor in the deaths and disappearances of
hundreds of Indigenous women and girls. However, this call for action
has continually been delayed by the government.

"Families, communities, and allies have not received any information
about what governments -- either federal or provincial -- have been
doing over the past year on this file," said Meggie Cywink, whose sister
disappeared on her respective birthday.

No glimpse of solace has been provided to affected families; they are
left with grief and mocked with the government’s inaction. Even so, the
COVID-19 pandemic has been used as an excuse for inaction. This is
highly redundant as Indigenous women are at greater risk of violence due
to the isolation measures in place.

The extensive report has created a descriptive framework and plan of
action for the country, yet the government fails to act on it. It lists
much-needed initiatives such as: legislation to preserve Indigenous
languages; giving Indigenous communities control over their
child-welfare systems; dealing with gender discrimination in the Indian
Act.

The genocide that exists today is at the hands of the Canadian
government. Each life is being dissolved into yet another statistic. It
sounds an alarm for action but it is deafened with systemic racism and
decades of oppression. Canada, please listen.

Rhea: This is an amazing article. Eloquent, passionate, forceful. It
makes for very compelling reading. Very mature and thorough writing.

My only caution is: you don’t need the bitterness (flinch, not even a
glance) to still make an extremely strong argument. It comes off better
without resorting to a very personal level of attack. I totally agree
with you on the facts and without the vitriol.

Excellent article and excellent writing.
